1. The number of congresspersons shall be equal to the cube root of twice the total number of persons counted in the most recent decennial census, that cube root being rounded up to the nearest multiple of 50.
2. The number of senators shall be 3 from each state, and the number of representatives shall be the balance of the number of congresspersons.
3. For the purposes of congressional apportionment and congressional election, but for no other explicit purposes, each inhabited district or territory of the United States which is not part of any state shall be considered as part of such state as Congress shall provide.
4. Representatives shall be elected proportional to the vote from within each state, such that each voter shall have the opportunity to rank slates of candidates from their state, and the slate with the lowest number of preferenced votes shall be eliminated successively, with such votes distributed to the next slate chosen by each voter, such choice having not yet been eliminated, until each remaining slate is due at least one representative. Ties shall be broken by the drawing of lots.
5. Senators shall be elected by the representatives of said state by majority vote. If the senator chosen is a representative, the representatives must concurrently select a replacement representative. If the representatives are unable to vote by majority for a senator, the seat shall remain vacant until such time as they are able to vote by majority for a senator. Senate seats that are being vacated due to the expiration of a term shall be filled by representatives of the incoming Congress, not by representatives of the outgoing Congress.
6. Whenever there is a vacancy in the position of representative, the seat shall remain vacant until the next Congress. Whenever there is a vacancy in the position of senator, the seat shall be filled in accordance with the above election process for senators.
7. No person shall be eligible to be a representative having previously served 6 terms as representative, nor shall any person be eligible to be a senator having previously served 3 terms as senator, but no term beginning before the effective date of this article shall be taken into account in determining eligibility, and partial terms shall be counted only if more than half of a full term was served.
8. The electoral college is abolished. Upon a vacancy in both the presidency and vice-presidency, or in anticipation of such a vacancy due to the expiration of a term, the Congress shall elect a president and vice-president together on a presidential slate. If such vacancy be due to the the expiration of a term, the Congress shall have its first such election two weeks before the expiration of the term. No person otherwise prohibited in this Constitution from the presidency shall be eligible to the presidency or vice-presidency. If a president and vice-president are selected by a majority of the Congress, then the two individuals shall be considered the president-elect and the vice-president-elect, and shall assume said offices upon their actual vacancy. If there is no such majority in the Congress, then the vote shall be repeated, such that there shall be two votes per day, after each vote, to include the first, eliminating all of those presidential slates receiving zero votes, and also the bottom one third, rounded down, of all of those presidential slates receiving votes, until a vote results in a majority for one slate, at which time said slate shall be considered elected. Ties shall be broken by the drawing of lots. At any time between such successive votes, a majority of the Congress may submit a signed attestation for a presidential slate, which may or may not have received votes or been previously eliminated, and that slate shall be considered elected.
9. The twelfth, seventeenth, and twenty-third articles of amendment to the Constitution of the United States are hereby repealed.
10. This article shall first apply to the Congress commencing at least one year following its ratification, but any seats created by its enactment shall not be considered created until the commencement of that Congress. 